.\" 
.\" man page for gjay
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Chuck Groom <cgroom@users.sourceforge.net>
.\" Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.\"
.\" This man page is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.pc
.TH GJAY 1 2011-03-22
.SH NAME
gjay \- organizes music collections 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gjay 
.RB [\| \-a
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR color \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-f \|]
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR length \|]
.RB [\| \-p \|]
.RB [\| \-s \|]
.RB [\| \-u \|]
.RB [\| \-v
.IR verbosity \|]
.RB [\| \-P \|]
.br
.B gjay
.BR [\| \-hV \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gjay
(Gtk+ DJ) analyzes and categorizes collections of MP3, OGG, FLAC and WAV music
files so that interesting playlists can be generated. Each song is assigned
characteristics (BPM and spectrum) and user-assigned attributes
(rating and color). "Color" is just a handy way for a user to describe
a song.

.B gjay
has both a user-visible interface and a background processing
component. The user-visible component is used to select the base music
directory, set song attributes, and generate playlists. The background
component (the daemon) analyzes songs.

Song analysis can take a while. After the base music directory has been
set and the daemon has started its analysis, it is possible to quit
the user interface portion of the program and allow the daemon to
continue in the background. GJay can be started in daemon mode by 
passing -d, in which case it runs until song analysis is complete.
It's OK to kill or ctrl+c to quit a running daemon; it saves data as it 
goes along.

You can create playlists from within the GJay or from the command line.
If you generate a playlist from the command line, the previous session's 
playlist preferences for the importance of various attributes will be used.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a\ file ,\ \-\-analyze\-standalone= file
Run the analysis daemon on
.I file
and then exit. Print the results of analyzing a file to stdout. Does not 
consult existing file data. 
.TP
.BI \-a\  color ,\ \-\-color= color
Start the playlist with the initial color of
.IR color .
.I color
can either be one of the named colors or a hex tuple in the format of
.RI 0x RRGGBB .
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-daemon
Run
.B gjay
as a daemon only with no GUI frontend.
.TP
.BI \-f\  file ,\ \-\-file= file
Start the playlist with
.IR file .
.TP
.BI \-l\  minutes ,\ \-\-length= minutes
Override the playlist length, the default is set in the preferences.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-skip\-verification
Skip file verification.
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-m3u\-playlist
When generating a playlist, make it in the m3u format.
.TP
.BI \-v\  verbosity ,\ \-\-verbose= verbosity
Set the level of how verbose
.B gjay
is.
.TP
.B \-P, \-\-player\-start
Start the music player after making a playlist.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show the version and copyright information for the program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR audacious (1) ,mpd (1)
